---
title: "tutorial"
bg: heavy_accent
color: white
fa-icon: book
---



# Tutorial



## Prerequisite knowledge

This tutorial is self-contained. Basic knowledge about *distributed systems* and *network security* is helpful but not necessary. A basic understanding of robotic systems is sufficient.



<div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div> <div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div>

## Outline

Contemporary robotic systems are vulnerable to diverse attack patterns, and an a posteriori hardening is at least challenging, if not impossible at all. This tutorial aims to stipulate the inclusion of security in robotics from the earliest design phases onward and with a special focus on the cost-benefit tradeoff that can otherwise be an inhibitor for the fast development of affordable systems. We aim to introduce new quantitative methods of security management and design, extending known vulnerability scoring systems to the distinguished setting of robotic systems, and accounting for the highly distributed nature of robots as an interplay of potentially very many components. A powerful quantitative approach to model-based security is offered by game theory, providing a rich spectrum of techniques to optimize security against various kinds of attacks. Such a multi-perspective view on security is necessary to address the heterogeneity and complexity of robotic systems.



<div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div> <div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div>

## Previous Tutorial History

The organizers of this tutorial have previous experiences with the following workshops and tutorials:

- **Workshop on Security and Privacy in Robotics**, *2020 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA)*, May 31 – June 4, 2020, Paris, France.
- [**CS4R Cyber Security for Robots workshop - Cybersecurity challenges in robotics**](https://aliasrobotics.com/cs4r.php), *European Robotics Forum 2020*,  March 3rd, 2020 - 15:30 CET,  Tech update session - Room 3, FYCMA - Palacio de Ferias y Congresos de Málaga, Av. de José Ortega y Gasset, 201, 29006 Málaga, Spain
- [**CS4R Cyber Security for Robots workshop - Cybersecurity for robotics solutions**](https://aliasrobotics.com/cs4r_2.php), *European Robotics Forum 2020*,  March 3rd, 2020 - 15:30 CET,  Tech update session - Room 3, FYCMA - Palacio de Ferias y Congresos de Málaga, Av. de José Ortega y Gasset, 201, 29006 Málaga, Spain
- [**ROS2 Security Workshop**](https://ros-swg.github.io/ROSCon19_Security_Workshop/), *2019 ROSCon*, Wednesday, 30th October 2019 (14:00-17:00), Macau, China
- [**Doing Real-Time with ROS 2 Workshop: Capabilities and Challenges**](https://www.apex.ai/roscon2019), *2019 ROSCon*, Wednesday, 30th October 2019 (14:00-17:00), Macau, China
- **Tutorial on Game Theory Meets Network Security**, *25th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS)*, Oct. 15-19, 2018, Toronto, Canada.
- **Tutorial on Securing Robotics with SROS2**, *2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems*, Oct. 1-5, 2018, Madrid, Spain.



<div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div> <div style="clear:both">&nbsp;</div>

## Expected attendance

We would like to accommodate as many developer and industry attendees as possible. We expect to have 30 participants for this tutorial.
